# Conclusion


We learned a lot from this experiment in the construction of woodblock type. For the low price of about $50.00, we were able to purchase, mill, and cut a set of font for production on a letter press. Ultimately, we have enough raw wood blocks to create two or three more full sets of fonts from that initial $50.00 purchase. When comparing this output to either purchasing a historic or [new set of workblock type online](https://www.virginwoodtype.com/shop/) or creating a set via a 3D printer, the cost savings are enormous.

From our mistakes, we learned that many steps of this process can be streamlined. This includes the creation of a cross-cut sled, only shellacing one side of the woodblocks, and properly callibrating the laser cutter. We believe that a [cross-cut sled](media/sled.jpg) could be built and calibrated to mass-produce type-high wood. As we spent a significant amount of time calibrating our woodblocks to be type-high, this sled would significantly cut down production time. Additional production time could be reduced by properly calibrating the laser cutting machines to cut more than one block of wood at a time.


As a next step, we have submitted a poster for the [2022 BH + DH conference](https://dcsco-op.org/dhbh/). Beyond the experimental aspects of font production, we hope to showcase the ways in which our digital font, Digi-Grotesk, has been reimagined and reused in a traditional print medium. Through this revitalization of a Digi-Grotesk, we aim to draw attention to an overlooked aspect of book and computing history. Finally, we hope consider our environmental impact in our poster. We include these considerations in our choice to use our method over other 3D printing techniques. 